.TH "UNORMALIZE" "1" "" "" "Unicode Normalization"
.SH NAME
.PP
unormalize \[em] convert between Unicode normalization forms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
unormalize [\-\-form={nfc,nfd,nfkc,nfkd}]
[\-\-in\-place=\f[I]EXTENSION\f[]]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [\f[I]files\f[]...]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
nfc [\-\-in\-place=\f[I]EXTENSION\f[]] [\f[I]files\f[]...]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
nfd [\-\-in\-place=\f[I]EXTENSION\f[]] [\f[I]files\f[]...]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
nfkc [\-\-in\-place=\f[I]EXTENSION\f[]] [\f[I]files\f[]...]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
nfkd [\-\-in\-place=\f[I]EXTENSION\f[]] [\f[I]files\f[]...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[C]unormalize\f[] (and friends) converts its standard input or any
files given to it to the desired Unicode normalization form.
To chose a normalization form, either use the filter with the
corresponding name, or use the general \f[C]unormalize\f[] tool with the
\f[C]\-\-form\f[] argument.
.PP
By default, all output is printed to standard output; however,
\f[C]unormalize\f[] can edit files in\-place by using the
\f[C]\-\-in\-place\f[] argument.
.SS Options
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
shows help message and exits.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-f \f[I]FORM\f[], \-\-form \f[I]FORM\f[]
One of nfc, nfd, nfkc, or nfkd (default is nfc).
.RS
.RE
.PP
For more information, see Unicode Standard Annex
#15 (http://unicode.org/reports/tr15/).
.TP
.B \-i \f[I]EXTENSION\f[], \-\-in\-place=\f[I]EXTENSION\f[]
Edits files in\-place, appending \f[I]EXTENSION\f[] to the filename of
the back\-up files.
.RS
.RE
.SH LICENSE
.PP
Copyright 2015 (C) Eddie Antonio Santos.
MIT licensed.
.SH AUTHORS
Eddie Antonio Santos.
